hi my name is Jane Frankland and you're
watching Jane Franklin TV and in this
episode I'm going to talk to you about
your customers and how you can identify
who your real customers are from the
from the start from the offset so that
you're simply not wasting your valuable
time with customers who are just never
going to be your customers ok so the
first thing that you need to do is
actually to qualify out your your
prospects or your leads and the Internet
has changed everything that we do it's
changed the way that people come to us
the the buyers are far more mature
they've gone to the Internet usually
Google looked at your profile that
company profile before actually actually
engaging with you so the one thing that
is such a valuable resource to you is
your time so that's the one thing that
you don't want to be wasting so when
someone does make that connection and
engage with you you need to start
qualifying out your your leads and
prospects and you need to be start you
need to start asking them questions to
ascertain whether or not they quite
frankly are worth your your investment
your time investment and because if
they're not then someone else you know
you're denying that opportunity to
someone else so it all comes down to
actually qualifying them out ok so
everyone who knows me knows that I'm a
huge fan of ethical professional selling
I don't do any of that sleazy staff I
don't do any of that con artist stuff it
just doesn't sit well with me at all but
I do love selling and I do like to treat
it as a as a profession
so I'm going to talk about the film
pretty woman because this there's a
scene in it
to which you know if you're a woman you
will know this scene it's the shopping
mall scene when Julia Roberts he's
playing Vivien the hooker you know goes
into this designer shop and she's
treated really badly by the shop
assistants you know they take one look
at her and they just think you can't
afford the clothes you're not our ideal
customer you know pretty much hop it
sunny Jim and they are very rude to her
and they tell her to leave now it's a
great example because it's is
illustrating that they have not
qualified their prospect they're their
potential client customer right from the
start so what happens to Julia Roberts
it's character Vivian and you know she
leaves the shop she's feeling really bad
she goes into another one they treat her
really well they sell her shed loads of
clothes really expensive clothes and she
eventually goes back to the shop with
the shop assistants who were really rude
to her holds up her bags and says big
mistake and it's it's a perfect example
because it was a huge mistake and this
is one but I don't want to see you doing
and it is vital that you get this right
it's not a skill that you're born with
it's a skill that you need to be taught
how to do and what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna run through several tips as to how
you can do that well it all comes down
to needs once and logistics and there
are five things that you can you can
look at now the first thing is actually
I'm just gonna read them out do they
have a problem does your ideal customer
or prospect have a problem that you can
solve that is the first thing the second
thing is do they have the motivation to
move forward and the third thing is do
they have the funds do they have the
money the fourth thing is can they make
the decision does it rest with them or
is somebody else involved in it and the
fifth thing is do they know the
competition do they know where your
strengths and potential your weaknesses
are
and those are the five key aspects when
it comes to qualifying your leads that
you need to to be asking before even
really you know if you're meeting with
them definitely before meeting but even
really front from the start of the
engagement
now you don't or the communication you
don't have to be getting all of that
information in one go if you do then
that's great but you don't have to you
can you can you know drip that that
questioning sequence out as you go but
you do need to capture all of that
information because it then becomes the
basis of whether or not that potential
client or customer is actually right for
your business now I'm gonna leave you
with something that Tony Robbins says
and he says successful people ask better
questions and as a result they get
better answers and I'm sure you've heard
that quote lots and lots of times I take
that quote and I use it for salespeople
but what I say is that successful
salespeople ask better questions and as
a result they get better sales so that
is it for today's episode I hope you've
enjoyed it what I want you to do is
actually to look at your qualification
criteria improve upon it if you if you
have qualification criteria if you don't
start making your list and then leave me
a comment below and then come and find
me on my website because there's so many
more tips there for you and I will see
you very soon thanks bye